
Two overall categories exists for taxa for which genome quality exceptions can
be requested under the SeqCode.

### 1. If the quality estimates are believed to be wrong

The first case entails genomes for which it is believed that the quality
estimates are incorrectly estimated in the contributor checks and/or the
automated estimates. In this case, the onus is on the contributor/s to provide
sufficient evidence for how the quality checks fail and why it is believed that
the estimates are incorrect. This could entail showing systematic reductions in
genome size across a particular lineage when estimates for completeness are
consistently low, or showing the consistent presence of marker genes in multiple
copies in multiples genomes of a taxon that leads to inflated contamination
estimates, or other approaches that show how or why the estimates are considered
to be incorrect. In this case, it is strongly recommended that this evidence is
included in a publication, as a means of documenting this in literature. A brief
description of this evidence should also be included in the "submitter comments"
section of the genome submission form, which will become publicly visible if
validated. These exceptions are granted at the discretion of the SeqCode
genomics curators and/or may be discussed among the SeqCode Registry and
Nomenclature Working Group depending on the case.

### 2. If the quality estimates are believed to be correct

The second case entails genomes for which the quality estimates are believed to
be correct, and the genome quality falls under the SeqCode genome quality
requirements. In these cases, a formal request for exception should be submitted
to the SeqCode Reconciliation Commission and the reasons for this exceptions
need to be effectively communicated. This formal request for decision and
community discussion should follow the format established for the discussion on
_Omnitrophus fodinae_ (https://github.com/seq-code/seqcode/discussions/2) and
should be submitted to the secretary of the SeqCode Reconciliation Commission
(see https://seqco.de/commmittee to identify the current secretary).
Following discussion among the Reconciliation Commission, and a three month
public discussion period, the Reconciliation Commission will vote on whether the
exception can be granted, and the Executive Board will be notified of the
decision. A public announcement will then follow on the decision. Here, the
exceptions are granted by majority vote of the Reconciliation Commission.

For additional information on the structure and members of the different parts
of the SeqCode Committee, see https://seqco.de/committee

